Submitted: 1 April, 2025; Revised: 29 May, 2025; Accepted: 3 June, 2025
© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Sleep Research Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please co ntact
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Per missions
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
SLEEPJ, 2025, 48,1 – 1 7
doi:10.1093/sleep/zsaf160
Advance Access publication 9 June 2025
Original Article
Original Article
A digital, real-time, history-based sleep-management
tool to enhance alertness
Yun Min Song1,2,† , Su Jung Choi 3,† , Dongju Lim1,2, Reinatt Hansel Wijaya4, Hyeong Jun Jang 2,5, Hea Ree Park 6, E u nY e o nJ o o6,* and
Jae Kyoung Kim1,2,7,*
1 Department of Mathematical Sciences, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea , 2 Biomedical Mathematics Group, Pioneer Research Center for Mathematical and
Computational Sciences, Institute for Basic Science, Daejeon, Republic of Korea , 3 Graduate School of Clinical Nursing Science, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul,
Republic of Korea, 4 School of Computing, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea , 5 School of T ransdisciplinary Studies, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea, 6 Department
of Neurology , Neuroscience Center, Samsung Medical Center, Samsung Biomedical Research Institute, School of Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul,
Republic of Korea and 7 Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, Republic of Korea
*Corresponding authors. Eun Yeon Joo, Department of Neurology , Neuroscience Center, Samsung Medical Center, Samsung Biomedical Research Institut e, School
of Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University , Seoul 06351, Republic of Korea. Email: ejoo@skku.edu; Jae Kyoung Kim, Department of Mathematical Sciences, KAIST ,
Daejeon 34141, Republic of Korea. Email: jaekkim@kaist.ac.kr.
† These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract
In today’s 24-h society, chronic sleep disruption and circadian misalignment have led to a “global sleep crisis,” increasing the risk
of cognitive impairment, workplace accidents, and long-term health consequences. Yet, most sleep management strategies rely on
one-size-fits-all recommendations that overlook individual variability, resulting in suboptimal and/or impractical solutions. T o address
this, we previously developed a real-time, personalized sleep scheduling framework based on tracking of dynamic sleep pressure and
circadian rhythms using a mathematical model. We recently implemented this framework in SleepWake, a mobile app designed for
real-world applications. In a retrospective analysis of a 71-participant clinical study and a prospective trial with 19 shift workers, greater
adherence to SleepWake’s personalized recommendations led to significant improvements in alertness. These benefits stemmed
from two key innovations that go beyond static sleep guidelines: real-time prescribed supplemental sleep to counteract prior deficits
and personalized sleep phase alignment tailored to individual circadian patterns. This study provides the first direct evidence that
continuously updated, individualized sleep schedules can optimize alertness and sleep health in real-world settings. By delivering sleep
recommendations rooted in sleep physiology and evidence-based modeling, SleepWake has the potential to improve health, enhance
safety, and elevate the overall quality of life in today’s around-the-clock society.
Key words: sleep; circadian rhythm; mathematical model; mobile application; shift work; alertness; sleep intervention
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


2 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
Graphical Abstract
Statement of Significance
The increasing demand for work outside daylight hours poses significant health and safety risks. T o address these challenges, we
previously developed a real-time, personalized sleep scheduling framework powered by a mathematical model. In this study , we
implemented the framework through SleepWake, a mobile app that tailors sleep schedules based on real-time updates of individual
sleep history . Unlike generic guidelines, SleepWake dynamically adjusts sleep schedules, offering additional rest when needed and
aligning sleep with natural rhythms. Among 71 female and 19 male shift workers, those who followed the app’s recommendations
showed significant improvements in alertness. These findings underscore the benefits of continuously updated, personalized sleep
schedules grounded in sleep physiology and evidence-based modeling for optimizing alertness.
Introduction
Artificial light is pervasive in modern society , and nighttime activ-
ities have become both common and crucial for maintaining
essential societal functions [ 1, 2]. In Europe, approximately 20 per
cent of workers engage in night shifts at least once a month [ 3],
with a higher rate in the United States [ 4]. In South Korea and
Japan, over 10 per cent of workers participate in night shifts [ 5,
6]. Furthermore, it has been suggested that over 80 per cent of the
general population may lead lifestyles that resemble those of shift
workers [7], highlighting the widespread prevalence of nighttime
activities that extend beyond traditional shift work. This trend
is further supported by a recent study reporting that high-GDP
countries tend to have later bedtimes [ 8].
Widespread nocturnal activity disrupts natural sleep patterns
and circadian rhythms, which are inherently synchronized with
the light–dark cycle [ 9, 10]. These disruptions result in sleep
deprivation and poor sleep quality , which can have profound
impacts on individual health. These impacts include immuno-
logical and metabolic changes and an increased risk of diseases,
including diabetes and certain types of cancer [ 11–14]. Moreover,
insufficient sleep and misaligned work schedules impair alertness
and cognitive function, reducing productivity and elevating the
risk of errors, injuries, and accidents [15–17]. These issues present
significant challenges to public health and safety and the overall
well-being of society .
In response, a variety of nonpharmacological interventions,
such as improvements in sleep hygiene and light therapy , have
been developed [
18–20]. These interventions aim to promote suffi-
cient, biologically appropriate sleep and optimize alertness when
required, even in contexts where biological rhythms are mis-
aligned with societal demands. A key strategy in these interven-
tions is the establishment of appropriate sleep schedules [ 21].
However, most existing approaches rely on one-size-fits-all sleep
schedules, leading to conf licting recommendations: some studies
advocate for morning sleep after a night shift [ 22], while others
suggest evening sleep [ 23–25], split sleep [ 26], or brief naps [ 27].
These approaches also fail to account for individual differences in
factors such as sleep history and work schedules. Thus, they are
often impractical and do not accommodate the diverse sleep pat-
terns required to meet individual needs and circumstances [
28].
Furthermore, even within the same individual, optimal sleep pat-
terns may vary depending on factors such as prior sleep history .
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 3
T o overcome the shortcomings of these one-size-fits-all sleep
interventions, recent advancements in mathematical modeling
have paved the way for personalized sleep strategies [ 29–33].
These models leverage individual sleep histories to predict real-
time f luctuations in sleep pressure and circadian rhythms, the
primary regulators of sleep and alertness [
29, 34–36]. Based
on these predictions, the framework generates physiologically
optimal sleep schedules tailored to enhance alertness during
individual-selected periods, unlike previous uniform approaches
[
29–33]. This adaptability is particularly beneficial for individuals
with irregular or highly variable schedules, offering practical
solutions to the diverse and dynamic nature of sleep needs.
Furthermore, the integration of these frameworks into real-
world settings has been accelerated by the widespread use of
digital technologies, including wearable devices and smartphones
equipped with advanced sensors and algorithms [
37, 38].
These interventions incorporating model-based sleep schedul-
ing can improve shift workers’ sleep by increasing total sleep
time (TST), reducing sleep onset latency , and alleviating insomnia
[
30–32]. However, some of the previous studies combined sleep
scheduling with additional educational resources—such as guid-
ance on caffeine use and light exposure—making it difficult to
isolate the effects of sleep schedule adjustments [
30, 31]. Impor-
tantly , prior intervention studies utilizing mathematical mod-
els lacked detailed analyses of how participants’ sleep patterns
changed in response to these interventions [
30–32]. As a result, it
remains unclear whether the observed benefits stemmed directly
from sleep schedule modifications or were inf luenced by external
factors. Additionally , these studies relied on estimated sleep data
based on activity schedules rather than observed sleep histories
to simulate the models, potentially compromising the accuracy
of alertness predictions [
29]. This limitation may explain why one
study failed to observe a clear improvement in alertness despite
implementing a model-based intervention [
31].
This study aimed to address a previously unresolved ques-
tion: does adherence to continuously updated sleep schedules—
tailored through a mathematical model integrating sleep his-
tory—enhance alertness? We recently developed a framework
that generates personalized and effective sleep schedules to opti-
mize alertness for upcoming work periods while maintaining
physiologically feasible sleep patterns based on predictions from a
mathematical model [
29]. Our model leverages real-time updates
of observed sleep data to forecast alertness, unlike previous inter-
vention frameworks that relied on estimated sleep data derived
from activity schedules [
30–32]. T o apply this framework in a real-
world setting, we implemented it as a mobile app, SleepWake.
The effectiveness of SleepWake’s sleep recommendations was
evaluated through a retrospective analysis of a prior clinical study
involving 71 female shift workers, followed by a clinical study with
19 male shift workers. By analyzing daily real-time sleep data, we
assessed how precise alignment with personalized sleep recom-
mendations and deviations from baseline sleep patterns inf lu-
enced alertness. Lastly , we analyzed how our personalized inter-
vention integrates previous sleep history to improve alertness—
distinguishing it from conventional one-size-fits-all approaches.
Materials and Methods
Overview of the SleepWake app and evaluation of its
effectiveness
In our recent study , we introduced a real-time sleep intervention
framework based on a physiologically based mathematical model
[29]. This model predicts real-time alertness by simulating the
dynamic interplay between sleep pressure and circadian pro-
cesses based on previous sleep history (see Mathematical model
and sleep recommendation section for details) [ 29, 34]. Based on
these predictions and individual schedules, the framework rec-
ommends an optimized sleep pattern called Adaptive Circadian
Split Sleep (ACSS) [
29]. ACSS is designed to maintain high model-
predicted alertness during desired activity periods while being
practical and feasible for real-world implementation (see Math-
ematical model and sleep recommendation section for details).
Implementing the ACSS pattern in real-world settings requires
real-time sleep data collection and model-based simulations. T o
support this, we previously proposed the concept of a mobile sleep
recommendation app based on ACSS, though it was not imple-
mented at the time. In the present study , we developed SleepWake,
a mobile app designed to deliver ACSS-based recommendations
(
Figure 1, A–C). SleepWake integrates past sleep history ( Figure 1,
A, left) through Apple Health and Samsung Health, which provide
accurate sleep records from smartwatches [39–42]. In cases where
sleep data is missing, such as when smartwatches are not worn,
users can manually input their sleep records. Additionally , users
can input information on future bedtime availability and work
schedules (
Figure 1, A, right).
Using this input, the app provides real-time alertness pre-
dictions around the current time ( Figure 1, B, left) and recom-
mends an optimal sleep period ( Figure 1, B, right) for the follow-
ing day based on the integrated model (see Mathematical model
and sleep recommendation section for details). The recommended
sleep period follows the ACSS pattern, starting from the earliest
feasible bedtime and continuing until the next day’s work period
begins. The sleep period represents the minimum sleep required
to maintain the average predicted alertness above zero during the
upcoming work period while avoiding physiologically infeasible
sleep windows.
Additionally , the app collects real-time subjective ratings
(Figure 1, C), including daily alertness (1–10 scale) and sleep
quality (1–5 scale). The daily alertness item, available in the
afternoon each day , prompts participants to ref lect on their
overall alertness throughout the day , rather than at a specific
moment. The prompt was: “How alert did you feel throughout the
day?” (translated into Korean). The sleep quality item assesses
the perceived quality of the most recent sleep period, using the
prompt: “How was your sleep quality last night?” (translated into
Korean).
While users are recommended sleep periods by SleepWake
(Figure 1, B, right), their adherence to these recommendations
varies, potentially inf luencing the effectiveness of the app. T o
quantify adherence, we computed an agreement between the
observed (
Figure 1, D, shaded region) and recommended (Figure 1,
D, hatched region) sleep periods as follows:
Agreement =
⎧
⎪⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
Length
((
Observed Sleep
)⋂ (
Recommended Sleep
))
Length
(
Recommended Sleep
)
if Recommended Sleep ⊈ Observed Sleep
Length
(
Observed Sleep
)
Length
(
Recommended Sleep
)
if Recommended Sleep ⊆ Observed Sleep
,( 1 )
If users did not fully adhere to the recommendation, the
agreement ref lects the proportion of the recommended sleep
period achieved by the observed sleep period (
Figure 1, D,
top). In cases of partial overlap, only the overlapping portion
of sleep is included in the agreement calculation ( Figure 1,
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


4 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
Figure 1. Method to evaluate the effectiveness of mathematical model-based sleep scheduling using the SleepWake app. (A) The SleepWake app
processes users’ sleep history (shaded regions, left), logged mainly via smartwatch or manually by the user if necessary . The app also collects users ’
schedule information, including the earliest possible bedtime for the current day (dashed line, right) and the designated work period for the follow ing
day (bracketed region, right). (B) Using these inputs, SleepWake computes and displays real-time alertness predictions (shaded region, left) arou nd the
current time (dashed line, left). The app also identifies optimal sleep patterns (hatched region, right) between the upcoming earliest possible bed time
(dashed line, right) and the work period (bracketed region, right) to enhance alertness during the work period, as determined by the embedded
mathematical model. (C) SleepWake further collects user-reported assessments of overall alertness for the day (daily alertness, scale 1 ∼ 10), and the
perceived quality of the previous night’s sleep (daily sleep quality , scale 1 ∼ 5). (D) T o evaluate user adherence to SleepWake’s recommendations, the
daily agreement between periods of observed sleep (shaded region) and SleepWake’s recommended sleep (hatched region) was calculated as the
proportion of their overlapping periods.
D, middle). If users fully adhered to the recommended sleep
period, any additional sleep beyond the recommendation further
increased the adherence score, allowing values to exceed one
(
Figure 1, D, bottom). This approach ref lects the fact that the
recommended sleep period represents the minimum duration
needed to maintain a mean predicted alertness above zero.
Therefore, sleeping beyond the recommendation—provided the
full recommended window is included—may confer additional
benefits.
Notably , equation (1) is a modification of the commonly used
percentage overlap:
percentage overlap =
Length
((
Observed Sleep
)⋂ (
Recommended Sleep
))
Length
(
Recommended Sleep
) × 100
(
%
)
,
(2)
which has also been used in previous studies to evaluate adher-
ence to sleep recommendations [ 32]. T o assess the robustness of
our findings to the choice of adherence metric, we performed a
sensitivity analysis by repeating all analyses using equation ( 2)i n
place of equation ( 1).
Mathematical model and sleep recommendation
The SleepWake app integrates a physiologically based mathemat-
ical model that simulates two key processes regulating human
sleep and alertness: sleep pressure and the circadian process [ 29,
34]. Sleep pressure accumulates during wakefulness, increasing
the need for sleep and reducing alertness, and dissipates during
sleep to restore homeostasis, typically following an exponential
decay trajectory . The circadian process represents f luctuations in
the internal biological clock, inf luencing both alertness and sleep
propensity . This process generally follows a sinusoidal pattern
with a ∼ 24-h period, reaching its nadir near the minimum of core
body temperature (CBTmin). Specifically , the circadian process is
modeled using a Van der Pol oscillator, which allows for modu-
lation by light exposure, resulting in variations in period, phase,
and amplitude. Detailed model equations and parameter values
are provided in the supplementary materials of our previous
study [
34].
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 5
In the present work, we used the same parameters and ini-
tial conditions as in the previous study [ 34], with one excep-
tion: the intrinsic period of the circadian rhythm ( τc)w a ss e tt o
24.2 h, consistent with the original formulation [ 43]. Additionally ,
we adopted a previously used assumed light intensity profile
for simulating the circadian process—250 lux during wakeful-
ness and 0 lux during sleep, accounting for the effects of arti-
ficial lighting [
34]. While light exposure was not directly mea-
sured, such an assumed light profile based on sleep patterns has
been shown to accurately predict alertness and circadian phase
shifts [34, 44–46].
In the model, the circadian process defines a dynamic sleep
threshold. When sleep pressure exceeds this threshold, the
individual is naturally predisposed to fall asleep. Consequently ,
remaining awake during these periods requires increased effort
and is typically associated with reduced alertness. Conversely ,
when sleep pressure is below the sleep threshold, the individual
is naturally inclined to stay awake, requiring minimal effort and
corresponding to heightened alertness. Based on this framework,
alertness at any given time is defined as the scaled difference
between the sleep threshold and sleep pressure (i.e. sleep
threshold
− sleep pressure). This definition is consistent with our
previous study , which successfully predicted the alertness levels
of shift-working nurses in a real-world setting [ 29]. Specifically ,
the alertness level ( AL(t))a tag i v e nt i m et is defined as:
AL(t) = max
(
min
(
− 100, 100
(
H+(t) − H(t)
)
3
)
, 100
)
where H+(t) is the sleep threshold driven by the circadian process,
and H(t) is the value of sleep pressure. Here, the scaling factor
100/3 is used because H+(t) − H(t) typically ranges from − 3t o
3. The max and min functions are applied to cap the resulting
alertness value within the range [ − 100,100].
A previous study compared various sleep patterns using the
physiologically based mathematical model and developed the
ACSS pattern [29]. This pattern consists of two key components: a
minimum necessary main sleep period and a late nap before work.
The main sleep duration is determined based on the user’s desired
sleep onset and model simulations to ensure model-predicted
alertness remains above zero at sleep offset. This split-sleep strat-
egy is designed to sustain high model-predicted alertness during
both work and nonwork periods, making it particularly beneficial
for work schedules that deviate from traditional daylight hours.
Based on the ACSS pattern, SleepWake provides daily updated,
personalized sleep recommendations that are more concretely
defined and refined compared to the conceptual approach pro-
posed in our previous study [
29]. Recommendations are generated
within a time window between the user’s desired sleep onset and 1
h before the upcoming work onset. Here, the 1-h margin accounts
for commute time and helps minimize the impact of sleep inertia,
which can reduce alertness and typically dissipates within 30–
60 min [
47]. Importantly , SleepWake’s recommendations dynam-
ically incorporate the user’s accumulating sleep history . As more
data becomes available, the model re-simulates or extends predic-
tions of sleep pressure and sleep threshold into subsequent days,
building on prior simulation results. This allows SleepWake not
only to incorporate past sleep history but also to continuously
fine-tune the timing and duration of both main sleep and naps
within the ACSS framework.
Specifically , SleepWake primarily recommends the minimum
necessary main sleep duration required to reduce daytime
sleepiness [34]. This main sleep begins at the user’s desired sleep
onset if the simulated sleep pressure exceeds the sleep threshold
at that time, indicating that natural sleep is likely according to
the model. The sleep continues until sleep pressure drops to meet
the sleep threshold, ensuring that awakening does not require
effort and alertness is above zero. If, however, the simulated sleep
pressure is lower than the sleep threshold at the user’s desired
onset time, the main sleep is delayed until sleep pressure reaches
the sleep threshold. If the main sleep period is insufficient to
maintain the average predicted alertness above zero during future
work periods, SleepWake suggests an additional late nap. The
nap duration is set to the minimum necessary to ensure that
the average predicted alertness remains above zero during work
hours, and it extends until 1 h before the upcoming work onset.
If there is no upcoming work period due to a scheduled day off,
only the necessary main sleep period is recommended.
If the desired sleep onset and the next work shift are too
close, allocating sufficient main sleep or maintaining alertness
above zero during future work periods may be impossible, even
after maximizing sleep duration. In such cases, SleepWake rec-
ommends advancing sleep onset while ensuring that the rec-
ommended sleep schedule avoids unfeasible periods, such as
overlapping with work hours or times when alertness is above
zero, which would make falling asleep physiologically difficult.
Data for retrospective analysis and reconstruction of
SleepWake recommendations
T o assess the effectiveness of the SleepWake intervention before
the prospective clinical study , we utilized a dataset from a
prior clinical study (Approval No. 2021-03-197) [ 29]. This dataset
includes data from 71 female Korean nurses with over 2.5 years of
shift work experience at a metropolitan hospital ( ≥2000 beds) in
Seoul, Republic of Korea. The participants followed various shift
schedules, including 8-h three-shift, 8-h two-shift, 12-h two-shift,
and fixed night shifts. Between May 2021 and April 2022, data on
the participants’ sleep and work periods, along with KSS scores
at the beginning and end of each shift, were collected using wrist
actigraphy and daily sleep diaries.
With the collected sleep data, we reconstructed SleepWake’s
recommended sleep period—spanning from the desired sleep
onset to the work period—by simulating the same mathemati-
cal model embedded in the SleepWake app. In this process, the
desired sleep onset was gradually advanced until either (1) the
average predicted alertness remained above zero during future
work hours or (2) further advancement led to an unfeasible sleep
schedule, mirroring the SleepWake app’s approach of recom-
mending earlier sleep onset in such cases (see Mathematical model
and sleep recommendation section for details). We then compared
the reconstructed recommended sleep periods with the observed
sleep data and analyzed their association with the corresponding
KSS scores. Notably , this analysis was not conducted in the previ-
ous study [
29].
Participants in the prospective clinical study
This study involved 19 Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs)
working on a three-shift system at a private emergency medical
service who volunteered to participate and were already using
a smartwatch (Approval No. 2024-01-061). The mean age of the
participants was 33.47± 7.90 years, and all participants were male
(
T able 1). The participants followed a 20-day rotating shift sched-
ule consisting of the following cycle: 5 days of morning shifts,
2 days off, 5 days of night shifts, 2 days off, 5 days of evening shifts,
and 1 day off. The shift times were as follows: morning (07:00 am
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


6 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
Table 1. Demographics of the Participants
Characteristics n (%) M ± SD Range
Male 19 (100)
Age, y 33.47 ± 7.90 (26–53)
Height, cm 176.15 ± 5.71 (165–187)
Weight, kg 79.0 ± 8.49 (68–97)
T otal career, y 8.75 ± 9.18 (1.17–29.42)
Shift work career, y 8.58 ± 8.94 (1.17–29.25)
Data collection
period, days
31.58 ± 8.09 (23–45)
to 03:00 pm), evening (03:00 pm to 11:00 pm), and night (11:00 pm
to 07:00 am). Data collection was conducted from February to May
2024.
Participants were instructed to wear their smartwatch while
sleeping and to install the SleepWake mobile app on their smart-
phones. Among the participants, three used an Apple Watch,
while the remainder used a Galaxy Watch. Data collection com-
menced on the first day of their day shift. Sleep data collected via
the smartwatch was automatically synchronized with the Sleep-
Wake app. If sleep data were not recorded via the smartwatches,
participants were asked to manually log their sleep in the app.
During the baseline phase (first ∼ 6 days), the intervention-related
features of the mobile app were locked to prevent participant
access. On the first day of the intervention period, a password to
unlock the app was provided, enabling participants to access the
intervention content.
Participants were not required to strictly adhere to the sleep
recommendations. This study design aimed to evaluate whether
improvements in alertness occurred specifically among those
who best adhered to the recommended sleep patterns during
the intervention phase. Notably , this design is the key distinction
from previous studies on sleep interventions using mathematical
models [
30–32].
TST , Midsleep, CBTmin, and phase similarity calculation
T o assess the impact of sleep history on daily agreement and
alertness, we calculated TST and midsleep for each day , based on
the identified main sleep episode. The main sleep was defined as
the longest sleep between shifts or the sleep episode immediately
following a night shift. On days off without scheduled shifts, we
applied a notional shift boundary from 07:00 pm to 07:00 pm (i.e.
zero duration). This choice was based on the distribution of sleep
onset times (
Figure S1 ), which showed minimal sleep initiation
around that time. Sleep episodes occurring between two main
sleep episodes were classified as naps. TST was the sum of the
main sleep and any subsequent naps, and midsleep was defined
as the midpoint of the main sleep episode.
Additionally , to assess the effect of alignment between sleep
timing and the optimal circadian phase for alertness, we esti-
mated each participant’s daily circadian phase—specifically , the
timing of the CBTmin—using the mathematical model integrated
within the SleepWake app. This model includes a variable (y; see
Supplementary Information of [
34] for details) that simulates the
dynamics of the circadian pacemaker based on a Van der Pol
oscillator and serves as a proxy for core body temperature [ 43],
exhibiting a daily rhythm. The time at which this variable reaches
its minimum during the daily cycle is identified as the CBTmin.
T o quantify the alignment between two specific time points
within the 24-h day—such as the average midsleep over the
preceding 3 days and the midsleep on the current day , or the
CBTmin and the current day’s midsleep—we calculated their time
difference in hours, referred to as the phase difference. Using
this phase difference, phase similarity was calculated using the
following equation:
phase similarity = cos
(
2π
(
phase difference
)
24h
)
.
Phase similarity ranges from − 1 to 1, where 1 indicates com-
pletely aligned midsleep times, while − 1 indicates a completely
reversed sleep phase with a 12-h difference in midsleep times.
Statistical analysis
The associations of daily TST and agreement with mean KSS
or alertness were explored by calculating Pearson correlation
coefficients ( r) and confidence intervals (CI) using the “corr.test”
function in R. Additionally , partial correlations between daily
agreement and alertness were also computed, controlling for the
effects of TST . This was done using residuals from linear regres-
sion models for daily TST agreement and daily TST alertness. The
linear regression models were fitted using the “lm” function in R,
and correlations between the residuals, along with their CIs, were
calculated with the “corr.test” function.
T o evaluate the inter-individual effects of the intervention
based on adherence, we categorized participants into high- and
low-adherence groups and analyzed changes in average daily
alertness, TST , and sleep quality from baseline (P1) to interven-
tion (P2) phases. The significance of these changes was assessed
using the two-sided Wilcoxon signed-rank test, conducted via
the “stat_compare_means” function in R [
48]. Additionally , the
correlation between changes in the average daily agreement and
alertness from P1 to P2 was examined by calculating r and CIs
using the “corr.test” function in R. Based on the calculated r,w e
then conducted a post hoc power analysis to justify the study’s
sample size, using the “pwr.r.test” function in R.
T o investigate the underlying mechanism of SleepWake’s rec-
ommendations, we examined how daily TST , the mean TST over
the preceding 3 days (TST prev), and phase similarity between the
average midsleep over the prior 3 days and the current day’s
midsleep relate to agreement and alertness. These relationships
were assessed using multiple linear regression models fitted with
the lm function in R. Additionally , we analyzed the association
between alertness and either the phase similarity between the
current day’s midsleep and the predicted CBTmin, or the CBTmin
itself, by calculating r and CIs using the “corr.test” function in R.
Results
Retrospective analysis for evaluation of SleepWake’s
effectiveness
T o evaluate the effectiveness of SleepWake’s sleep recommen-
dations, we first conducted a retrospective analysis using data
from a previous clinical study that involved 71 female shift work-
ers (
Figure 2, A;s e e Materials and Methods section for details)
[29]. These participants were assigned to various rotating shift
schedules, including two-, three-, or night-only shifts. They wore
actigraphy devices and kept sleep diaries during a∼ 14-day clinical
experiment conducted in real-world settings. The study collected
data on sleep and work periods, as well as subjective sleepiness
levels, which were measured using the Karolinska Sleepiness
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 7
Scale (KSS) score at the beginning and end of each work period
(Figure 2, B).
Using these data, we reconstructed the estimated SleepWake
recommendations ( Figure 2, B;s e e Materials and Methods section
for details). We then examined the association between the mean
KSS score for each daily work period (mean KSS) and the agree-
ment between the reconstructed SleepWake recommendations
and observed sleep period (
Figure 1, D) preceding the correspond-
ing work period ( Figure 2, C;s e e Materials and Methods section for
details). Additionally , we analyzed the association between daily
mean KSS and TST of the sleep period to assess whether TST
acts as a confounding factor in the relationship between daily
agreement and mean KSS (see Materials and Methods section for
details).
The overall TST data exhibited an approximately normal distri-
bution, with a mean of ∼ 470 min ( Figure 2, D, top). When analyz-
ing the full dataset, while daily TST did not correlate significantly
with mean KSS ( r =− 0.052, p = .298), the daily agreement with
the SleepWake recommendations exhibited a significant nega-
tive correlation with the mean KSS ( r =− 0.230, p = 2.533e-06)
(Figure 2, E and F, top). This suggests that longer TST does not lead
to greater alertness, whereas greater adherence to SleepWake’s
recommendations does lead to improved alertness. Furthermore,
when restricting the analysis to data within narrower TST ranges
centered around the mean (
Figure 2, D, bottom), the correla-
tion between TST and the mean KSS score remained insignifi-
cant ( r =− 0.075, p = .232), while the significant negative corre-
lation between agreement and KSS score persisted ( r = − 0.167,
p = .007) ( Figure 2, E and F, bottom). These results indicate that
even with similar TST , greater adherence to SleepWake recom-
mendations can lead to higher levels of alertness. Notably , this
significant association was also held when focusing exclusively
on night shift days—periods typically associated with circadian
disruption (
Figure S2 ). T aken together, this retrospective anal-
ysis demonstrated the potential for adherence to SleepWake’s
recommendations to improve alertness in real-world settings,
even under conditions of circadian misalignment such as night
shift work.
Participants with high levels of adherence experienced
improvements in alertness
Given the promising results of the retrospective analysis for
SleepWake’s evaluation, we conducted a prospective clini-
cal study . We recruited 19 male shift workers (mean age:
33.47 ± 7.90 years) employed as EMTs who followed the same
rotating three-shift schedule (morning, evening, night, and
off) on a 20-day cycle (
Figure 3, A). During the clinical study ,
participants were instructed to integrate the SleepWake app
into their daily routines, ensuring that objective sleep data
from their smartwatches were recorded in the app. In addition,
participants logged daily ratings of alertness and sleep quality ,
while momentary alertness ratings were recorded at least three
times per day . The logged data was transmitted to a connected
server for collection.
The clinical study spanned ∼ 26 days, comprising a ∼ 6-day
Baseline phase (P1) and a ∼ 20-day Intervention phase (P2)
(Figure 3, B). During P1, the real-time alertness predictions and the
recommended optimal sleep period for the following day (Figure 2,
B) were not displayed to participants, although these outputs
continued to be calculated in the background. In contrast, during
P2, these features were fully visible and accessible to participants.
Across all participants, P1 included only off days and a single shift
type: 15 participants were assigned to the morning shift, while 4
participants were in the evening shift during this period.
Based on the collected data, SleepWake’s recommendations
were reconstructed using the same approach as in the retrospec-
tive analysis (see Materials and Methods section for details), and its
daily agreement with the observed sleep period was calculated.
Using the daily agreement changes between P1 and P2, we evalu-
ated each participant’s adherence. Specifically , we compared the
average daily agreement over the entire P1 period (
Figure 3, C,d a y s
1–6) with a subset of P2 ( Figure 3, C, days 21–26) that featured
the same shift schedule and occurred 20 days later. Therefore,
data from days 7 to 20 were excluded from this comparison,
as the shift schedules during that time differed from those in
P1. This approach enabled a fair assessment of adherence by
controlling for shift type. Participants were then grouped based on
individual changes in average daily agreement between P1 and P2:
those with increased agreement in P2 were assigned to the high
adherence (HA) group, while the remainder were categorized as
the low adherence (LA) group (
Figure 2, C). The HA and LA groups
consisted of 10 and 9 participants, respectively . The average daily
agreement increased by 21.8 ± 36.0%p from P1 to P2 in the HA
group and decreased by 10.7 ± 6.3%p in the LA group.
For each group, we analyzed individual changes in daily alert-
ness (Figure 1, C, top), TST , and sleep quality (Figure 1, C, bottom)
between P1 and P2 (Figure 3, E–G). When comparing P1 and P2, the
HA group exhibited a statistically significant increase in alertness
(p = .012), rising from a mean of 4.67 to 5.64, whereas the LA group
showed significant decreases (p = .02), from a mean of 5.64 to 4.49
(Figure 3, E). This indicates that alertness improved only for those
who adhered closely to the recommendations. Notably , changes in
average daily agreement and alertness were positively correlated
(
Figure S3;s e eMaterials and Methods section for details), suggesting
that greater adherence to the recommendations leads to greater
improvements in alertness.
Interestingly , there was no significant change in TST in the HA
group ( p = .058), increasing from a mean of 356.0 to 397.3 min
(Figure 3, F, left), suggesting that the improvement in alertness
resulted from better alignment between sleep patterns and the
recommended schedule rather than increased TST . The insignif-
icant change in TST also indicates that adhering to the recom-
mended schedule does not negatively impact TST . Furthermore,
sleep quality remained stable in the HA group ( p = .72), with
a mean change from 2.93 to 3.05 (
Figure 3, G, left), indicating
that following the recommended sleep schedule does not have
a significant adverse impact on sleep quality . In contrast, the
LA group experienced a significant decrease in both TST ( p =
.0039), dropping from a mean of 374.6 to 332.7 min (
Figure 3, F,
right) and sleep quality ( p = .030), decreasing from a mean of 3.19
to 2.63 ( Figure 3, G, right), highlighting that deviation from the
recommended sleep schedule is associated with reduced TST and
sleep quality , which can negatively impact health and safety .
T aken together, the SleepWake app effectively identified opti-
mal sleep periods to enhance alertness without compromising
TST or quality , with significant benefits observed only when users
actively follow the recommendations.
Greater agreement between observed and recommended
sleep schedules is associated with greater daily
alertness, even with similar TST
We demonstrated that greater adherence to the recommended
sleep schedule over a period with consistent work patterns led
to improvements in alertness ( Figure 3). This finding suggests
that alertness would generally be greater on days when users
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


8 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
Figure 2. Greater agreement with SleepWake’s recommendations is associated with greater daily alertness. (A) A retrospective analysis was conducted
using data from 71 female shift workers (mean age = 29.10± 3.71) following three different rotating shift schedules. (B) The shift workers’ sleep
(shaded region) and work (bracketed region) period data, along with KSS scores at the beginning (filled triangle) and end (hollow triangle) of each wo rk
period, were collected via actigraphy and sleep diaries. Based on the collected data, the SleepWake recommendation (hatched region) was
reconstructed. (C) For each daily work period, the mean KSS score, TST of the sleep period preceding the work period, and the agreement between the
sleep period and the reconstructed SleepWake recommendations were calculated. (D–F) In the entire dataset (count = 407), where daily TST values
followed an approximately normal distribution (D , top), daily TST (E, top left) did not show a significant correlation with the mean KSS (F , top).
However, greater daily agreement (E, top right) showed a significant negative correlation with the mean KSS (F , top). This indicates that it is not gre ater
TST but greater agreement with SleepWake recommendations that leads to a lower mean KSS (i.e. greater alertness). Error bars in (F) denote 95% CIs.
Analysis within a narrower daily TST range—5 to 9 h (D , bottom, shaded region)—centered around the mean daily TST revealed no significant
association between daily TST and mean KSS (E, bottom left; F , bottom). In contrast, the negative association between daily agreement and mean KSS
remained significant (E, bottom right; F , bottom). This suggests that adherence to SleepWake recommendations contributes to lower mean KSS, even
with similar TST . Here, N.S.p > .05,
∗p < .05, ∗∗p < .01, ∗∗∗p < .001.
followed the recommended sleep more closely compared to days
when they did not, as observed in the retrospective analysis
(Figure 2). T o test this hypothesis, we analyzed daily agreement
and alertness data to assess whether a positive correlation existed
between the two (
Figure 4, A;s e e Materials and Methods section for
detail). T o account for the possibility that the improved alertness
with increased agreement could be confounded by longer TST , we
also examined the correlation between daily TST and alertness
(
Figure 4, A).
The overall TST data showed an approximately normal distri-
bution centered around an average of 6 h ( Figure 4, B, top). When
analyzing the full dataset, both daily TST ( r = 0.343, p = 1.249e-12)
and agreement ( r = 0.423, p = 2.2e-16) exhibited significant posi-
tive correlations with alertness ( Figure 4, C and D,t o p ) .H o w e v e r ,
when restricting the analysis to data within narrow TST values
clustered around the mean ( Figure 4, B, mid and bottom), the
correlation between TST and alertness disappeared ( r = − 0.013,
p = .879 for mid; r = 0.140, p = .148 for bottom), while the sig-
nificant positive correlation between agreement and alertness
persisted (r = 0.235, p = .004 for mid; r = 0.278, p = .003 for bottom)
(Figure 4, B–D, mid and bottom). These results indicate that, even
with similar TST , alertness can vary depending on how closely
sleep aligns with the recommended duration and timing.
T o further examine this relationship, we assessed whether
improved agreement consistently improves alertness, even after
controlling for the effects of TST on agreement and alertness,
using partial correlation [ 49]. Specifically , we trained linear
regression models to quantify the relationships between TST and
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 9
Figure 3. Participants with high adherence to SleepWake recommendations experienced improvements in alertness. (A) A clinical study to evaluate
the effectiveness of SleepWake was conducted with 19 male shift workers (mean age = 33.47 ± 7.90) adhering to a rotating three-shift schedule
(morning (M), evening (E), night (N), and off (O)). Participants utilized SleepWake and recorded sleep using smartwatches. (B) The study design incl uded
two phases: A baseline (P1; pre-mid) and an intervention (P2; mid-post) phase. During P1, spanning ∼ 6 days, participants did not have access to
SleepWake outputs, serving as a control condition. During P2, spanning, ∼ 20 days, participants could access SleepWake’s outputs. Comparisons of
adherence and alertness across these phases were analyzed to assess the intervention’s effectiveness. (C) Daily agreement, along with recorded dai ly
alertness, TST , and sleep quality , were averaged across P1 (left box) and the corresponding days in P2 with the same shift types (right box) to ensure
consistency in comparison. (D) Based on the average daily agreement in P1 and P2, participants were grouped: The high adherence (HA) group ( n = 10)
included those whose average daily agreement in P2 exceeded that in P1, while the low adherence (LA) group ( n = 9) included those whose daily
agreement did not increase. (E) The HA group exhibited a significant daily alertness increment during P2 compared to P1, whereas the LA group
showed a significant decline in P2 relative to P1. (F and G) In the HA group, changes in daily TST (F) and sleep quality (G) were insignificant. In contras t,
the LA group exhibited significant reductions in both measures during P2. These results demonstrate that adherence to the recommended sleep
schedule enhances alertness while preserving TST and sleep quality , whereas deviations from the schedule are associated with reductions in both TST
and sleep quality . Here, N.S.p > .05,
∗p < .05, ∗∗p < .01, ∗∗∗p < .001.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


10 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
Figure 4. Greater agreement with SleepWake’s recommendations is associated with greater daily alertness, even with similar TST . (A) T o examine the
daily effects of TST and agreement on alertness, their correlations were analyzed using aggregated participant data. (B–D) In the entire dataset
(count = 405), where daily TST values followed a normal distribution (B, top), daily TST and alertness (C, top left) showed significant correlation (D , top).
Daily agreement and alertness (C, top right) also showed a significant correlation (D , top). This indicates that greater agreement and longer TST are
each associated with greater daily alertness. Error bars in (D) denote 95% CIs. Analysis within specific narrow daily TST ranges—5 to 6.5 h (B, middle,
shaded region) and 6.5 to 8 h (B, bottom, shaded region)—centered around the mean daily TST , revealed no significant association between daily TST
and alertness (C, middle and bottom left; D , middle and bottom). However, the positive correlation between daily agreement and alertness remained
significant (C, middle and bottom right; D , middle and bottom), suggesting that adherence to SleepWake recommendations contributes to greater
alertness, even with similar daily TST . (E and F) T o examine the relationship between daily agreement and alertness while accounting for the effects o f
TST , their partial correlation was calculated using residuals from linear regression models between daily TST agreement and daily TST alertness. (G )A
positive partial correlation was observed, indicating that adherence to the suggested sleep schedule enhances daily alertness, independent of TST .
Here, N.S. p > .05,
∗p < .05, ∗∗p < .01, ∗∗∗p < .001.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 11
agreement, as well as between TST and alertness ( Figure 4, E).
T o control for the inf luence of TST , we calculated the residuals
of these linear regression models. The correlation between the
residuals ( Figure 4, F) represents the partial correlation between
agreement and alertness after removing the effect of TST [50]. The
resulting partial correlation was significantly positive ( r = 0.290,
p = 2.834e-09) (Figure 4, G), demonstrating that greater agreement
is associated with greater alertness even when the effect of the
length of the TST is controlled. Notably , this positive association
remained robust when the analysis was limited to night shift
days and subsequent off days—periods typically marked by
circadian disruption ( Figure S4 ). These findings suggest that
the relationship between agreement and alertness holds even
under conditions of circadian misalignment caused by night
shifts.
T aken together, adherence to SleepWake’s sleep recommenda-
tions appears to enhance daily alertness, even when daily TST
is similar. These findings emphasize that optimizing alertness
requires not only adequate TST but also precise alignment of sleep
timing with personalized sleep recommendations.
Sleep periods should be adjusted according to previous
TST and circadian rhythms to enhance alertness
Through the previous analyses, we confirmed that even when
TST is identical, closer alignment with the recommended sleep
schedule results in greater alertness ( Figures 2 and 4). This raises
the question: what variations in sleep history affect agreement
and thus alertness despite similar TST? T o investigate this, we
analyzed two distinct sleep history periods for one participant
over 4 days, both featuring similar TST on the final day but
differing in agreement and resulting alertness.
For one participant ( Figure 5, A), we found that in one period
(Figure 5, A, left), insufficient average TST over the preceding 3
days (TSTprev =∼ 6 h) led to a longer recommended sleep period to
maintain high alertness. Conversely , when TSTprev was sufficient
(TSTprev =∼ 9h )( Figure 5, A, right), the recommended sleep period
was shorter. For the longer recommended sleep period caused by
insufficient sleep in the preceding 3 days, TST ( ∼ 6 h) on the final
day was insufficient ( Figure 5, A, left) resulting in lower alertness.
In contrast, the same TST ( ∼ 6 h) was sufficient for the shorter
recommended sleep, resulting in greater alertness.
For another participant ( Figure 5, B), TSTprev was similar across
two histories ( ∼ 355 min), but the timing of the previous sleep
periods differed. In one case ( Figure 5, C,l e f t ) ,t h ea v e r a g em i d -
sleep time of the previous sleep periods ( ∼ 11:49) was signifi-
cantly delayed compared to the midsleep time of the final day
(∼ 2:34), resulting in a large phase difference ( ∼ 9.26 h) and low
phase similarity (cos
( 2π(phase difference )
24 h
)
≈− 0.75) (see Materials and
Methods section for details on midsleep and phase similarity).
Such delayed previous sleep history caused a delayed circadian
phase that had previously been entrained to past sleep patterns.
Then, the recommended sleep period, adjusted to align with the
delayed circadian rhythm, was also delayed. Consequently , even
with a long TST ( >9 h), misalignment with the recommended
sleep period resulted in low agreement and alertness. Conversely ,
in the other history (
Figure 5, B, right), although the final day’s
TST was shorter ( <9 h), the phase of the prior sleep periods was
better aligned (∼ 0.74). This alignment allowed the observed sleep
period to nearly match the recommended sleep period, resulting
in greater agreement and alertness.
The findings from the case analyses, where greater TST prev
and phase similarity led to greater agreement and alertness with
similar TST level, were further examined using the daily data
(Figure 5, C and D). When analyzing the data within narrow ranges
of daily TST (5–6.5 h in Figure 5, C and 6.5–8 h in Figure 5, D),
we observed a trend that increasing daily TST prev and phase
similarity was associated with greater agreement and alertness.
T o investigate this relationship statistically , we conducted multi-
ple linear regression analyses, predicting agreement or alertness
based on current TST , TST
prev, and phase similarity ( T ables 2and
3). All variables were significant contributors, with increases in
each leading to improvements in agreement and alertness. This
suggests that even after accounting for the effects of current
TST , greater TSTprev and phase similarity still result in increased
agreement and alertness.
T aken together, we established a key principle for sleep
interventions aimed at enhancing alertness: when prior TST is
insufficient, longer sleep should be recommended (
Figure 5, E),
and the phase of the recommended sleep period must closely
align with prior sleep history (Figure 5, F). These findings highlight
the limitations of generic, one-size-fits-all sleep interventions,
demonstrating that improving alertness requires individualized
sleep patterns that account for both past sleep duration and
phase. This also emphasizes the importance of mobile apps like
SleepWake, which provide personalized daily sleep schedules by
continuously integrating updated sleep history to optimize alert-
ness effectively .
Discussion
This study provides the first clear evidence that mathematical
model-driven sleep recommendations can enhance alertness. We
integrated a previously developed model-based sleep recommen-
dation framework into a mobile app for real-world application
(
Figure 1). A retrospective analysis of data from a previous clinical
study involving 71 female shift workers demonstrated that pre-
cise adherence to model-based sleep recommendations can lead
to improved alertness ( Figure 2). In a subsequent clinical study
with 19 male shift workers using this app, only those who more
precisely adhered to the recommended sleep schedules experi-
enced significant improvements in alertness without compromis-
ing TST or sleep quality (
Figure 3 and Figure S3). Furthermore, on
days with greater adherence to the recommendations, alertness
was enhanced, even when TST was similar ( Figure 4). Finally , a
detailed analysis of cases with similar TST but differing alert-
ness levels, alongside multiple linear regression incorporating
the duration and phase of the previous sleep, highlighted a key
difference of our model that leads to enhanced alertness over
conventional one-size-fits-all approaches: the model dynamically
recommended supplemental sleep when prior sleep was insuffi-
cient and aligned sleep phases with individual historical patterns
(
Figure 5).
In the retrospective analysis, alertness was measured using the
KSS at the beginning and end of each work shift, thereby capturing
momentary sleepiness levels. In contrast, the prospective study
asked participants to evaluate their overall alertness across the
day (see Materials and Methods section for details). This discrepancy
in measurement scales and timing may partly explain why TST
was not significantly associated with alertness in the retrospec-
tive analysis (
Figure 2) but showed a significant association with
daily alertness ratings in the prospective study ( Figure 4). Notably ,
despite these differences in the alertness items, we observed con-
sistent associations between the alignment of observed sleep with
SleepWake’s recommended sleep and both alertness measures—
even when analyses were restricted to a narrow range of TST
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


12 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
Figure 5. Sleep periods should be adjusted based on previous TST and circadian rhythm to promote high alertness. (A) Representative sleep histories
(shaded region) over 4 days, with similar TST on the final day , and their corresponding recommended sleep periods (hatched region) were analyzed.
For the same participant, a sleep period (TST = 362 min) following a shorter average TST over the previous 3 days (TST prev = 351 min) failed to meet the
suggested sleep requirement, resulting in low alertness (daily alertness = 5; left). In contrast, a sleep period (TST = 361 min) following a longer TST prev
(TSTprev = 542 min) aligned with the suggested sleep period, leading to greater alertness (daily alertness = 7; right). (B) For another participant, a long
sleep period (TST = 581 min) with a midsleep time (solid vertical line) that was largely misaligned with the average midsleep over the previous 3 days
(dashed vertical line) (phase similarity =− 0.75) did not meet the suggested sleep requirement, resulting in low alertness (daily alertness = 5; left).
Conversely , a shorter sleep period (TST= 511 min) with a midsleep time that was more closely aligned with the prior average midsleep time (phase
similarity = 0.74) nearly satisfied the suggested sleep requirement, leading to high alertness (daily alertness = 7; right). (C and D) Scatter plots of daily
TSTprev and phase similarity , with colors representing daily agreement (C) and alertness (D), for daily TST ranges of 5 to 6.5 h (left) and 6.5 to 8 h
(right). Within these narrow daily TST ranges, greater TST prev and phase similarity appear to be associated with greater agreement and alertness. (E
and F) These results demonstrate that incorporating previous sleep history is critical for improving alertness: The recommended sleep period needs to
be lengthened when the prior TST is short, and sleep periods must be closely aligned with prior sleep phases to optimize alertness.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 13
Table 2. Multiple Linear Regression Analysis for Daily Agreement
Variables β t P-values SE
Intercept − 0.4995 − 6.509 <.0001 0.0767
TST 0.0014 12.656 <.0001 0.0001
TSTprev 0.0015 8.693 <.0001 0.0002
Phase similarity 0.1603 5.639 <.0001 0.0284
β, regression coefficient; t, t-statistics; p, p-value; SE, standard error; TST , total sleep time.
Table 3. Multiple Linear Regression Analysis for Daily Alertness
Variables β t P-values SE
Intercept − 1.7120 3.714 .0002 0.4610
TST 0.0043 6.445 <.0001 0.0007
TSTprev 0.0032 3.139 .0018 0.0010
Phase similarity 0.7244 4.241 <.0001 0.1708
β, regression coefficient; t, t-statistics; p, p-value; SE, standard error; TST , total sleep time.
(Figures 2 and 4). This suggests that the SleepWake recommen-
dation may enhance not only immediate alertness during work
shifts but also participants’ broader perception of daily alertness,
reinforcing the potential benefit of personalized sleep scheduling.
We found that recommended sleep timing aligned more closely
with observed sleep and was associated with improved daily alert-
ness, particularly when sleep timing remained consistent with
prior history—a proxy for stable circadian alignment (
Figure 5,
B–D). This outcome stems from the model underlying the Sleep-
Wake app, which estimates each user’s sleep threshold and sug-
gests sleep only when the modeled homeostatic sleep pressure
exceeds this threshold. By design, this approach encourages sleep
during biologically favorable phases—typically near the circadian
nadir, which closely corresponds to CBTmin—a time conducive
to both sleep initiation and maintenance [
51]. Further supporting
this interpretation, we observed that days with greater alignment
between the estimated CBTmin and the midpoint of observed
sleep were associated with higher levels of alertness upon wak-
ing (
Figure S5 ;s e e Materials and Methods section for details on
CBT min estimation). In contrast, absolute phase shifts in CBT -
min (e.g. advances or delays) were not significantly associated
with changes in alertness. These findings suggest that maintain-
ing alignment with one’s circadian rhythm—rather than merely
avoiding phase shifts—is critical for sustaining daytime alertness
for shift workers.
In this study , we used a modified metric (equation 1)t o
evaluate the agreement between the recommended and observed
sleep that extends the standard percentage overlap (equation
2) by allowing values greater than one when the observed sleep
duration fully encompasses the recommended sleep window . This
modification ref lects the interpretation of the recommended
period as a minimum threshold necessary for maintaining
alertness, suggesting that additional sleep may provide further
benefits and therefore should not be penalized. However, this
approach may lead to inf lated agreement scores when the
observed sleep duration substantially exceeds the recommen-
dation. T o address this concern, we performed a sensitivity
analysis using the conventional percentage overlap metric,
which caps agreement values at one (
Figure S6 ). The results
remained qualitatively consistent, supporting the validity of our
conclusions regardless of the specific adherence metric used.
One of the assumptions used in our model simulations was
a light intensity of 250 lux during wakefulness and 0 lux during
sleep. While this light profile has been commonly used in previous
studies [
34, 44–46], it may overestimate nighttime light exposure
during wakefulness, which is typically lower and varies depending
on occupation and lighting environment. T o assess the sensitivity
of our model to this assumption, we conducted an additional
analysis using a modified light schedule in which light intensity
was set to 40 lux between 08:00 pm and 08:00 am, ref lecting
reduced ambient light during typical nighttime hours and aligning
with previous modeling studies (
Figure S7 )[ 29, 35]. The results
under this adjusted light scheme did not result in any qualitative
changes in the recommended sleep schedules or overall model
behavior. These findings suggest that the core functionality and
recommendations of SleepWake are robust to moderate varia-
tions in light intensity assumptions.
In the LA group of the prospective study , we observed a signifi-
cant decline in sleep quality , suggesting that sleeping outside the
recommended sleep window may negatively impact sleep quality
(Figure 3). However, in the HA group, no significant improvement
in sleep quality was observed. This may be due to the limited
sample size, which could have reduced statistical power. Alterna-
tively , it suggests that changes in sleep patterns alone may not be
sufficient to effectively enhance sleep quality , underscoring the
need for additional interventions. For instance, previous studies
employing mathematical models not only recommended optimal
sleep schedules but also incorporated education on lifestyle mod-
ifications for shift workers, leading to significant improvements in
perceived sleep quality [
30, 31]. Integrating our sleep intervention
framework with such strategies could potentially enhance inter-
vention effectiveness.
Another promising intervention that could have synergistic
effects when combined with our approach is controlled light expo-
sure. Light is a primary regulator of circadian timing, inf luencing
alertness both indirectly through circadian entrainment [ 52]a n d
directly via its acute alerting effects [ 53]. As a result, regulating
light—its intensity , timing, or duration—serves as an effective
tool for helping shift workers adapt to night shifts and enhance
alertness [
54–57]. Notably , optimizing light exposure protocols to
enhance their effectiveness has been explored using mathemat-
ical models that predict circadian rhythm responses to light [ 58–
61]. Our model includes a component that simulates circadian
adjustments based on light exposure (see Materials and Methods
section for details), making it well-suited for integration with
light-based interventions. Future research could investigate how
these approaches can be combined to maximize their effective-
ness in promoting alertness and circadian adaptation.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


14 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
While the current research has primarily focused on alertness
data to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions, it is also
essential to examine other sleep-related indicators. For instance,
assessing whether the proposed sleep timing helps individuals
fall asleep more easily compared to their previous patterns is
crucial, as explored in previous studies [
30–32]. Thus, analyzing
whether SleepWake recommendations lead to improvements in
the insomnia severity index or reductions in sleep onset latency
would be critical. Furthermore, mood is also well-known to be
closely linked to sleep and circadian rhythms [
44, 45, 62], making
it another critical area for exploration. A compelling direction for
future research would be to examine whether our proposed sleep
recommendations are effective in enhancing mood. Additionally ,
it would be valuable to determine if mood improvements require
different sleep patterns than those optimized for improving alert-
ness.
Our sleep recommendations guide users to wake up at least
1 h before their scheduled work shift, accounting for the effects
of sleep inertia (see Materials and Methods section for details).
However, the duration of sleep inertia can vary depending on
prior sleep history and wake-up time, with some individuals
experiencing little to no sleep inertia while others experience it
f o ro v e ra nh o u r[
47, 63]. Notably , recent research has developed
models to predict the effects and duration of sleep inertia on
alertness [
64]. By incorporating insights from these models into
our framework, we could move beyond rigid recommendations of
waking up exactly 1 h before a shift. This would allow for more
f lexible and potentially more effective sleep recommendations.
The mathematical model we currently use assumes uniform
parameters for all individuals. While interventions based on this
model have successfully improved alertness, evidence suggests
significant physiological differences between individuals, high-
lighting the need for personalized model parameters to enhance
effectiveness. For example, long sleepers and short sleepers may
differ in the time scales of sleep pressure accumulation and
dissipation [
65]. Additionally , studies have shown substantial
variability in individuals’ sensitivity to light, a key factor in regu-
lating circadian rhythms [ 66]. Recent research has demonstrated
that optimizing personalized parameters in a mathematical
model can better align model-predicted sleep patterns with
observed sleep behaviors [
67]. Similarly , by tailoring our model,
we could estimate personalized parameters that more accurately
ref lect individual differences and predict changes in alertness
based on sleep history . This work might require identifying
the conditions under which these parameters can be reliably
estimated.
Despite promising findings, several limitations exist. First, the
prospective clinical study included only 19 participants. Since
the prospective clinical study was designed as an exploratory
pilot to assess the feasibility and potential efficacy of the Sleep-
Wake app, a priori sample size calculation was unfeasible. The
decision to recruit 19 workers was driven primarily by logistical
constraints, including recruitment feasibility and workforce avail-
ability . Notably , a post hoc analysis of a key finding—specifically ,
the correlation between average change in agreement with Sleep-
Wake recommendations and average change in alertness from
P1 to P2 (
Figure S3 )—suggested that the study had 85 per cent
statistical power (see Materials and Methods section for details),
indicating that it was adequately powered to detect the observed
effect. However, assuming a more conservative effect size in
future studies would require a larger sample size to ensure suffi-
cient statistical power. This suggests that additional studies with
more participants may be necessary to replicate and validate the
findings.
Second, as EMTs, participants may have had rest opportuni-
ties during nonemergency periods, potentially reducing fatigue.
Furthermore, while participants followed a three-shift system,
their consistent 20-day rotation pattern may have inf luenced the
outcomes. Notably , a retrospective analysis in this study was con-
ducted using data from 71 shift workers with different genders,
work types, and shift schedules (see
Figure 2 and Materials and
Methods section for details). This analysis supports the general-
izability and broader applicability of our findings, suggesting that
the promising results observed in the prospective clinical study
could extend to a wider range of occupational groups and shift
schedules. It is also essential to explore whether this intervention
benefits nonshift workers.
Third, this study primarily relied on subjective measures of
alertness and sleep quality . For more robust validation, future
studies should incorporate objective assessments. For example,
integrating tests such as the Psychomotor Vigilance T ask into
the app could provide an objective measure of alertness [
68].
Furthermore, accurately predicting sleep stages may be essential
for evaluating self-reported sleep quality more effectively , which
could be enhanced by recent advancements in precise sleep–wake
state and sleep stage prediction algorithms [
69–73].
Finally , due to structural constraints in our app, we could not
determine whether the sleep records originated from wearable
device sensors, manual input by participants, or automated sleep
detection algorithms (e.g. time-in-bed estimates based on phone
or watch usage patterns). As a result, all sleep entries were
uniformly treated as observed sleep data, regardless of origin.
This lack of source verification may have introduced variability in
data accuracy , potentially affecting the calculation of individual
adherence scores and their association with alertness outcomes.
For instance, automated estimations may overestimate actual
sleep duration, while manually entered data are susceptible to
recall bias. Future work should focus on integrating data pipelines
that explicitly identify the source and method of sleep detection,
enabling more precise analyses and interpretations.
Supplementary material
Supplementary material is available at SLEEP online.
Acknowledgments
We acknowledge Life Science Editors for their editorial assistance.
Funding
This work was supported by the Institute for Basic Science IBS-
R029-C3 (to JKK) and Samsung Medical Center Grant OTC1190671
(to EYJ).
Author contributions
EYJ and JKK conceptualized the research. YMS and JKK developed
the methodology . SJC and HRP collected the experimental data.
YMS analyzed the data. YMS, HJJ, and RHW developed the mobile
application. EYJ and JKK supervised the project. YMS and CSJ
wrote the draft of the manuscript. All authors contributed valu-
able feedback, refining the manuscript for intellectual content.
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 15
Disclosure statement
Financial disclosure: None declared.
Non-financial disclosure : The authors declare the following com-
peting interests: The mobile application SleepWake was devel-
oped by the authors, and there are plans for its public release.
Additionally , a patent has been filed related to the underlying
technology of SleepWake. These interests could be perceived as
potential conf licts of interest.
Data availability
The data underlying this article will be shared on reasonable
request to the corresponding author.
References
1. Gaston KJ, Gaston S, Bennie J, Hopkins J. Benefits and costs
of artificial nighttime lighting of the environment. Environ Rev .
2015;23(1):14–23. https://doi.org/10.1139/er-2014-0041
2. Dhande KK, Sharma S. Inf luence of shift work in process indus-
try on workers’ occupational health, productivity , and fam-
ily and social life: an ergonomic approach. Hum Factors Ergon
Manuf Service Ind . 2011; 21(3):260–268.
https://doi.org/10.1002/
hfm.20231
3. Eurofound, Wilczynska A, Cabrita J, et al. 6th European Working
Conditions Survey – 2017 Update . Publications Office of the Euro-
pean Union; 2017. https://doi.org/10.2806/422172
4. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) .
National Health Interview Survey (NHIS 2015) program. In:
Worker Health Charts (WHC). Unadjusted Prevalence of Work
Organization Characteristics (NHIS 2015) Among Workers (NHIS-
OHS). Cincinnati, OH: US Department of Health and Human
Services, CDC, NIOSH.
https://wwwn.cdc.gov/Niosh-whc/
chart/ohs-workorg/work?T=OU&OU=*&V=R&chk_codes=False
Accessed June 4, 2025.
5. Jang TW. Working hours and the regulations for night shift
workers. Ann Occup Environ Med . 2023; 35(1):e19. https://doi.
org/10.35371/aoem.2023.35.e19
6. Kubo T. Estimate of the number of night shift workers in Japan. J
UOEH. 2014;36(4):273–276. https://doi.org/10.7888/juoeh.36.273
7. Sulli G, Manoogian ENC, T aub PR, Panda S. T raining the cir-
cadian clock, clocking the drugs, and drugging the clock to
prevent, manage, and treat chronic diseases.T rends Pharmacol Sci.
2018;39(9):812–827. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tips.2018.07.003
8. Park S, Zhunis A, Constantinides M, Aiello LM, Quercia D,
Cha M. Social dimensions impact individual sleep quantity
and quality . Sci Rep . 2023; 13(1):9681.
https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41598-023-36762-5
9. Smith MR, Eastman CI. Shift work: health, performance and
safety problems, traditional countermeasures, and innovative
management strategies to reduce circadian misalignment. Nat
Sci Sleep. 2012;4:111–132. https://doi.org/10.2147/NSS.S10372
10. Boivin DB, Boudreau P. Impacts of shift work on sleep and
circadian rhythms. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2014;62(5):292–301. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.patbio.2014.08.001
11. Kecklund G, Axelsson J. Health consequences of shift work and
insufficient sleep. BMJ. 2016;355:i5210. https://doi.org/10.1136/
bmj.i5210
12. Kanki M, Nath AP, Xiang R, et al. Poor sleep and shift work
associate with increased blood pressure and inf lammation in
UK Biobank participants. Nat Commun . 2023;14(1):7096. https://
doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-42758-6
13. Cai R, Gao L, Gao C, et al. Circadian disturbances and frailty
risk in older adults. Nat Commun . 2023; 14(1):7219. https://doi.
org/10.1038/s41467-023-42727- z
14. Brooks TG, Lahens NF, Grant GR, Sheline YI, FitzGerald GA,
Skarke C. Diurnal rhythms of wrist temperature are associ-
ated with future disease risk in the UK Biobank. Nat Commun .
2023;14(1):5172. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-40977-5
15. Wong IS, McLeod CB, Demers PA. Shift work trends and risk
of work injury among Canadian workers. Scand J Work Environ
Health. 2011;37(1):54–61. https://doi.org/10.5271/sjweh.3124
16. Hui SK, Grandner MA. T rouble sleeping associated with
lower work performance and greater health care costs: lon-
gitudinal data from Kansas state employee wellness pro-
gram. J Occup Environ Med . 2015; 57(10):1031–1038.
https://doi.
org/10.1097/JOM.0000000000000534
17. Ryu J, Jung-Choi K, Choi KH, Kwon HJ, Kang C, Kim H. Associ-
ations of shift work and its duration with work-related injury
among electronics factory workers in South Korea. Int J Envi-
ron Res Public Health . 2017; 14(11):1429. https://doi.org/10.3390/
ijerph14111429
18. Zhang Y, Murphy J, Lammers-van der Holst HM, Barger LK, Lai
YJ, Duffy JF. Interventions to improve the sleep of nurses: a
systematic review. Res Nurs Health . 2023; 46(5):462–484. https://
doi.org/10.1002/nur.22337
19. Jeon BM, Kim SH, Shin SH. Effectiveness of sleep interven-
tions for rotating night shift workers: a systematic review and
meta-analysis. Front Public Health . 2023; 11:1187382. https://doi.
org/10.3389/fpubh.2023.1187382
20. Crowther ME, Ferguson SA, Vincent GE, Reynolds AC. Non-
pharmacological interventions to improve chronic disease risk
factors and sleep in shift workers: a systematic review and meta-
analysis. Clocks Sleep. 2021;3(1):132–178.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
clockssleep3010009
21. Alfonsi V, Scarpelli S, Gorgoni M, Pazzaglia M, Giannini AM, de
Gennaro L. Sleep-related problems in night shift nurses: towards
an individualized interventional practice. Front Hum Neurosci .
2021;15:644570. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnhum.2021.644570
22. McKenna H, Wilkes M. Optimising sleep for night shifts. BMJ.
2018;360:j5637. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.j5637
23. Chinoy ED, Harris MP, Kim MJ, Wang W, Duffy JF. Scheduled
evening sleep and enhanced lighting improve adaptation to
night shift work in older adults. Occup Environ Med . 2016;73(12):
869–876. https://doi.org/10.1136/oemed-2016-103712
24. Isherwood CM, Chinoy ED, Murphy AS, Kim JH, Wang W, Duffy
JF. Scheduled afternoon-evening sleep leads to better night
shift performance in older adults. Occup Environ Med . 2020;77(3):
179–184. https://doi.org/10.1136/oemed-2019-105916
25. Cheng W-J, Hang L W, Kubo T, Vanttola P, Huang SC. Impact
of sleep timing on attention, sleepiness, and sleep quality
among real-life night shift workers with shift work disorder:
a cross-over clinical trial. Sleep. 2022; 45(4):zsac034.
https://doi.
org/10.1093/sleep/zsac034
26. Jackson ML, Banks S, Belenky G. Investigation of the effective-
ness of a split sleep schedule in sustaining sleep and maintain-
ing performance. Chronobiol Int . 2014; 31(10):1218–1230. https://
doi.org/10.3109/07420528.2014.957305
27. Oriyama S, Miyakoshi Y, Kobayashi T. Effects of two 15-min naps
on the subjective sleepiness, fatigue and heart rate variability
of night shift nurses. Ind Health . 2014; 52(1):25–35. https://doi.
org/10.2486/indhealth.2013-0043
28. Booker LA, Magee M, Rajaratnam SMW, Sletten TL, Howard
ME. Individual vulnerability to insomnia, excessive sleepiness
and shift work disorder amongst healthcare shift workers. A
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


16 | SLEEPJ, 2025, Vol. 48, No. 11
systematic review. Sleep Med Rev . 2018; 41:220–233. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.smrv .2018.03.005
29. Song YM, Choi SJ, Park SH, Lee SJ, Joo EY, Kim JK. A real-
time, personalized sleep intervention using mathematical mod-
eling and wearable devices. Sleep. 2023; 46(9):zsad179.
https://
doi.org/10.1093/sleep/zsad179
30. Murray JM, Magee M, Giliberto ES, et al. Mobile app for per-
sonalized sleep-wake management for shift workers: a user
testing trial. Digit Health. 2023;9:20552076231165972. https://doi.
org/10.1177/20552076231165972
31. V a r m aP ,P o s t n o v aS ,K n o c kS ,et al. SleepSync: early testing of
a personalised sleep-wake management smartphone applica-
tion for improving sleep and cognitive fitness in defence shift
workers. Clocks Sleep. 2024;6(2):267–280.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
clockssleep6020019
32. Varma P, Postnova S, Phillips AJK, et al. Pilot feasibility testing
of biomathematical model recommendations for personalising
sleep timing in shift workers. J Sleep Res . 2025; 34(4):e14026.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jsr.14026
33. Vital-Lopez FG, Doty TJ, Reifman J. Optimal sleep and work
schedules to maximize alertness. Sleep. 2021; 44(11):zsab144.
https://doi.org/10.1093/sleep/zsab144
34. Hong J, Choi SJ, Park SH, et al. Personalized sleep-wake
patterns aligned with circadian rhythm relieve daytime
sleepiness. iScience. 2021; 24(10):103129.
https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.isci.2021.103129
35. Knock SA, Magee M, Stone JE, et al. Prediction of shiftworker
alertness, sleep, and circadian phase using a model of arousal
dynamics constrained by shift schedules and light expo-
sure. Sleep. 2021; 44(11):zsab146. https://doi.org/10.1093/sleep/
zsab146
36. Postnova S, Lockley SW, Robinson PA. Prediction of cogni-
tive performance and subjective sleepiness using a model of
arousal dynamics. J Biol Rhythms. 2018;33(2):203–218.
https://doi.
org/10.1177/0748730418758454
37. Perez-Pozuelo I, Zhai B, Palotti J, et al. The future of sleep health:
a data-driven revolution in sleep science and medicine. NPJ Digit
Med. 2020;3(1):42. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-020-0244-4
38. Garbarino S, Bragazzi NL. Revolutionizing sleep health: the
emergence and impact of personalized sleep medicine. J Pers
Med. 2024;14(6):598. https://doi.org/10.3390/jpm14060598
39. Jaworski DJ, Park EJ. Apple watch sleep and physiolog-
ical tracking compared to clinically validated actigraphy ,
ballistocardiography and polysomnography . Annu Int Conf
IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc . 2023; 2023:1–4. https://doi.org/10.1109/
EMBC40787.2023.10340725
40. Miller DJ, Sargent C, Roach GD. A validation of six wearable
devices for estimating sleep, heart rate and heart rate variability
in healthy adults. Sensors (Basel) . 2022; 22(16):6317. https://doi.
org/10.3390/s22166317
41. Lee T, Cho Y, Cha KS, et al. Accuracy of 11 wearable, nearable,
and airable consumer sleep trackers: prospective multicenter
validation study. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth . 2023; 11:e50983. https://
doi.org/10.2196/50983
42. Kim D, Joo EY, Choi SJ. Validation of the Samsung Smartwatch
for sleep–wake determination and sleep stage estimation. J Sleep
Med. 2023;20(1):28–34. https://doi.org/10.13078/jsm.230004
43. Forger DB, Jewett ME, Kronauer RE. A simpler model of the
human circadian pacemaker. J Biol Rhythms . 1999;14(6):532–537.
https://doi.org/10.1177/074873099129000867
44. Song YM, Jeong J, de los Reyes AA V, et al. Causal dynamics
of sleep, circadian rhythm, and mood symptoms in patients
with major depression and bipolar disorder: insights from
longitudinal wearable device data. EBioMedicine. 2024; 103:
105094.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105094
45. Lim D, Jeong J, Song YM, et al. Accurately predicting mood
episodes in mood disorder patients using wearable sleep and
circadian rhythm features. NPJ Digit Med . 2024;7(1):324.
https://
doi.org/10.1038/s41746-024-01333- z
46. Lim D, Choi SJ, Song YM, Park HR, Joo EY, Kim JK. Enhanced
circadian phase tracking: a 5-h DLMO sampling protocol using
wearable data. J Biol Rhythms . 2025; 40(3):249–261. https://doi.
org/10.1177/07487304251317577
47. Hilditch CJ, McHill A W. Sleep inertia: current insights. Nat Sci
Sleep. 2019;11:155–165. https://doi.org/10.2147/NSS.S188911
48. Kassambara A. ggpubr: ‘ggplot2’ based publication ready plots .R
package version. 2018:2.
49. Brown BL, Hendrix SB. Partial correlation coefficients. In: Everitt
BS, Howell DC, eds. Encyclopedia of Statistics in Behavioral Sci-
ence. Chichester (UK): John Wiley & Sons; 2005. https://doi.
org/10.1002/0470013192.bsa469.
50. Baba K, Shibata R, Sibuya M. Partial correlation and conditional
correlation as measures of conditional independence. Aust N
Z J Stat . 2004; 46(4):657–664. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-842
X.2004.00360.x
51. Dijk DJ, Czeisler CA. Contribution of the circadian pacemaker
and the sleep homeostat to sleep propensity , sleep structure,
electroencephalographic slow waves, and sleep spindle activ-
ity in humans. J Neurosci . 1995; 15(5):3526–3538.
https://doi.
org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.15-05-03526.1995
52. Duffy JF, Wright KP. Entrainment of the human circadian sys-
tem by light. J Biol Rhythms . 2005; 20(4):326–338. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0748730405277983
53. Chellappa SL, Gordijn MCM, Cajochen C. Can light
make us bright? Effects of light on cognition and sleep.
Prog Brain Res . 2011; 190:119–133. https://doi.org/10.1016/
B978-0-444-53817-8.00007-4
54. Vetter C, Pattison PM, Houser K, et al. A review of human phys-
iological responses to light: implications for the development
of integrative lighting solutions. LEUKOS. 2022; 18(3):387–414.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15502724.2021.1872383
55. Varma P, Rahman SA. Lighting the path forward: the value
of sleep- and circadian-informed lighting interventions
in shift work. Sleep. 2024;47(11):zsae214. https://doi.org/10.1093/
sleep/zsae214
56. Czeisler CA, Johnson MP, Duffy JF, Brown EN, Ronda JM, Kro-
nauer RE. Exposure to bright light and darkness to treat phys-
iologic maladaptation to night work. N Engl J Med . 1990;322(18):
1253–1259.
https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199005033221801
57. Wu C-J, Huang TY, Ou SF, Shiea JT, Lee BO. Effects of lighting
interventions to improve sleepiness in night-shift workers: a sys-
tematic review and meta-analysis. Healthcare. 2022; 10(8):1390.
https://doi.org/10.3390/healthcare10081390
58. Christensen S, Huang Y, Walch OJ, Forger DB. Optimal adjust-
ment of the human circadian clock in the real world. PLoS Com-
put Biol . 2020; 16(12):e1008445. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.
pcbi.1008445
59. Scott H, Guyett A, Manners J, et al. Circadian-informed lighting
improves vigilance, sleep, and subjective sleepiness during sim-
ulated night-shift work. Sleep. 2024; 47(11):zsae173.
https://doi.
org/10.1093/sleep/zsae173
60. Guyett A, Lovato N, Manners J, et al. A circadian-informed
lighting intervention accelerates circadian adjustment to
a night work schedule in a submarine lighting environ-
ment. Sleep. 2024; 47(11):zsae146. https://doi.org/10.1093/sleep/
zsae146
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026


Song et al. | 17
61. M a y e rC ,W a l c hO ,D e m p s e yW ,et al. A circadian and app-based
personalized lighting intervention for the reduction of cancer-
related fatigue. Cell Rep Med. 6(3):102001. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.xcrm.2025.102001
62. Lee MP, Kim DW, Fang Y, et al. The real-world association
between digital markers of circadian disruption and mental
health risks. NPJ Digit Med. 2024;7(1):355. https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41746-024-01348-6
63. Signal TL, van den Berg MJ, Mulrine HM, Gander PH. Duration of
sleep inertia after napping during simulated night work and in
extended operations. Chronobiol Int . 2012;29(6):769–779. https://
doi.org/10.3109/07420528.2012.686547
64. McCauley ME, McCauley P, Kalachev LV, et al. Biomathemat-
ical modeling of fatigue due to sleep inertia. J Theor Biol .
2024;590:111851. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtbi.2024.111851
65. Monk TH, Buysse DJ, Welsh DK, Kennedy KS, Rose LR. A
sleep diary and questionnaire study of naturally short sleep-
ers. J Sleep Res . 2001; 10(3):173–179. https://doi.org/10.1046/
j.1365-2869.2001.00254.x
66. Phillips AJK, Vidafar P, Burns AC, et al. High sensitivity and
interindividual variability in the response of the human circa-
dian system to evening light. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2019;
116(24):12019–12024.
https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1901824116
67. Skeldon AC, Rodriguez Garcia T, Cleator SF, et al. Method to
determine whether sleep phenotypes are driven by endogenous
circadian rhythms or environmental light by combining
longitudinal data and personalised mathematical models. PLoS
Comput Biol . 2023; 19(12):e1011743. https://doi.org/10.1371/
journal.pcbi.1011743
68. Arsintescu L, Kato KH, Cravalho PF, Feick NH, Stone LS, Flynn-
Evans EE. Validation of a touchscreen psychomotor vigilance
task. Accid Anal Prev . 2019;126:173–176.
https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.aap.2017.11.041
69. Lee MP, Kim DW, Mayer C, Walch O, Forger DB. The
combination of topological data analysis and mathematical
modeling improves sleep stage prediction from consumer-
grade wearables. J Biol Rhythms . 2024; 39(6):535–553. https://doi.
org/10.1177/07487304241288607
70. Yuan H, Plekhanova T, Walmsley R, et al. Self-supervised learn-
ing of accelerometer data provides new insights for sleep and
its association with mortality .NPJ Digit Med. 2024;7(1):86. https://
doi.org/10.1038/s41746-024-01065-0
71. Walch O, Huang Y, Forger D, Goldstein C. Sleep stage predic-
tion with raw acceleration and photoplethysmography heart
rate data derived from a consumer wearable device. Sleep.
2019;42(12):zsz180. https://doi.org/10.1093/sleep/zsz180
72. Stephansen JB, Olesen AN, Olsen M, et al. Neural network
analysis of sleep stages enables efficient diagnosis of nar-
colepsy . Nat Commun . 2018; 9(1):5229.
https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41467-018-07229-3
73. Ode KL, Shi S, Katori M, et al. A jerk-based algorithm ACCEL
for the accurate classification of sleep-wake states from arm
acceleration. iScience. 2022;25(2):103727. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.isci.2021.103727
© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Sleep Research Society . All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please co ntact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained
through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permission s@oup.com.
SLEEPJ, 2025, 1–17
https://doi.org/10.1093/sleep/zsaf160
Original Article
Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/sleep/article/48/11/zsaf160/8158652 by Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1 user on 20 February 2026
